Add a Public Doc For GCP Metric Discrepancy Issue (#30762)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy.md

---
title: GCP Metric Discrepancy

description: "Troubleshooting steps for the GCP metric discrepancy"
further_reading:
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/google-cloud-platform/"
  tag: "Integration"
  text: "GCP Integration"
---

## Overview

Use this guide to troubleshoot GCP metric discrepancy issues.

## Metric Discrepancies

Datadog ingests the most granular raw values from Google Cloud Platform (GCP). All aggregation seen in Datadog happens on the Datadog side. We report the raw values from Google as gauges into Datadog's metrics intake, and any further aggregation is performed within Datadog. Take `gcp.redis.stats.cpu_utilization` as an example.

1. Find the corresponding metric in GCP.

>    For GCP integration, Datadog converts GCP metrics into format gcp.`GCP_SERVICE_NAME`.`METRIC_NAME`. For the [example metric](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp_p_z#gcp-redis:~:text=of%20%5Bprimary%2C%20replica%5D.-,stats/cpu_utilization,-GA%20%E2%80%83(project)), the GCP service name is **redis** and the metric name is **stats/cpu_utilization**. The full metric name is `redis.googleapis.com/stats/cpu_utilization`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For the GCP integration, Datadog converts GCP metrics into the format `gcp.GCP_SERVICE_NAME.METRIC_NAME`. For the [example metric](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp_p_z#gcp-redis:~:text=of%20%5Bprimary%2C%20replica%5D.-,stats/cpu_utilization,-GA%20%E2%80%83(project)), the GCP service name is **redis**, and the metric name is **stats/cpu_utilization**. The full metric name is `redis.googleapis.com/stats/cpu_utilization`.
```

2. Find the most granular dimensions.

>    These include all the **Resource labels**: `project_id`,`region`, `instance_id`, `node_id`, and **Metric labels**: `role`, `space`, `relationship`. Refer to the GCP documentation for other metrics.

Reviewer: "GCP documentation" should link out to the documentation you are referencing.

   
   {{< img src="integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy/labels_definition.png" alt="labels definition in GCP documentation" >}}

   {{< img src="integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy/redis_instance.png" alt="redis_instance resource labels" >}}

> 3. Graph the metric in GCP Metrics explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Graph the metric in the Google Cloud Metrics Explorer.
```
"Metrics Explorer" should be a link.

>    You can search by `redis.googleapis.com/stats/cpu_utilization`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Search for `redis.googleapis.com/stats/cpu_utilization`.
```

>    - Time: ideally in UTC for 1 hour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Time: Past 1 hour
```

   - Namespace: Cloud Memorystore Redis Instance
   - Metric name: CPU Seconds 
   - Filter: (most granular dimensions) project_id, region, instance_id, node_id, role, space, relationship.

>    - Aggregation: Sum (should show the same values when using mean, min, max, sum or none if using most granular dimensions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Aggregation: Sum (should show the same values when using mean, min, max, sum, or none if using most granular dimensions)
```

   - Min interval: 1m

   {{< img src="integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy/gcp_metric_explorer.png" alt="gcp metric explorer" >}}

> 4. Graph the metric in Datadog Metrics explore. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Graph the metric in the Datadog Metrics Explorer. 
```

   {{< img src="integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy/datadog_metric_explorer.png" alt="datadog metric explorer" >}}

>    In most cases, after completing steps 1–4, you will see the exact same values in both GCP and Datadog. However, in our example, a discrepancy appears at 01:40:00 PM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In most cases, after completing steps 1–4, you see the exact same values in both Google Cloud and Datadog. However, in our example, a discrepancy appears at 01:40:00 PM.
```

   - **Datadog**: 108.71ms 
   - **GCP**: 0.0018119s

   {{< img src="integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy/gcp_value.png" alt="gcp value" >}}

   {{< img src="integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy/datadog_value.png" alt="datadog value" >}}

> 5. Understand GCP Alignment Functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Understand Google Cloud alignment functions.
```

>    This discrepancy occurs because by default GCP applies a rate alignement for this metric (see what is an alignement function in [GCP doc](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/v3/aggregation#alignment-intro)). If you click on `configure aligner`, You’ll see that the alignment function is automatically set to rate (0.108711 / 60 ≃ 0.0018119)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This discrepancy occurs because by default, GCP applies a rate alignment for this metric. For details, see the Google cloud [alignment function](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/v3/aggregation#alignment-intro) documentation. Click on `configure aligner` to see that the alignment function is automatically set to **rate**(0.108711 / 60 ≃ 0.0018119).
```

   {{< img src="integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy/gcp_aligner.png" alt="gcp aligner" >}}

   {{< img src="integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy/gcp_rate.png" alt="gcp rate" >}}

> 6. Adjust the Alignment Function in GCP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Adjust the alignment function in Google Cloud.
```

>    You can change the alignment function to `delta`, `min`, `max`, `sum` or `mean` and it should show the same values if you are using the most granular dimensions, for example using `delta` alignment. You can see the value matches Datadog now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Change the alignment function to `delta`, `min`, `max`, `sum`, or `mean`. Assuming you are using the most granular dimensions, the value in Google Cloud should match the value in Datadog.
```

---
title: GCP Metric Discrepancy

description: "Troubleshooting steps for the GCP metric discrepancy"
further_reading:
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/google-cloud-platform/"
  tag: "Integration"
  text: "GCP Integration"
---

## Overview

Use this guide to troubleshoot metric discrepancies between Google Cloud and Datadog.

## Metric discrepancies

> Datadog ingests the most granular raw values from Google Cloud Platform (GCP). All aggregation seen in Datadog happens on the Datadog side. Datadog's metrics intake imports the raw values from Google as gauges, and any further aggregation is performed within Datadog. The following steps reconcile the metric `gcp.redis.stats.cpu_utilization` between Google Cloud and Datadog.

Reviewer 2: Nit: think we're trying to move away from from the GCP/Google Cloud Platform verbiage since Google has updated it to `Google Cloud` would suggest we update our docs here accordingly for consistency.

1. Find the corresponding metric in GCP.

>    For the GCP integration, Datadog converts GCP metrics into the format `gcp.GCP_SERVICE_NAME.METRIC_NAME`. For the [example metric][1], the GCP service name is **redis**, and the metric name is **stats/cpu_utilization**. The full metric name is `redis.googleapis.com/stats/cpu_utilization`.

Reviewer 3: nit: I think it is an important distinction to call out the specific monitoring resource_type that is associated with each metric (as that will differ from metric to metric under the same service).

For example under the Redis service, there are:

- [redis.googleapis.com/Cluster](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/resources#tag_redis.googleapis.com/Cluster)
- [redis_instance](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/resources#tag_redis_instance)
- [redis.googleapis.com/ClusterNode](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/resources#tag_redis.googleapis.com/ClusterNode)

I think its an important disctinction because different monitoring resource types have different labels that customers would expect to see on them and they can't just use the labels for redis_instance to get the most granular for another redis metric necessarily.

   - [redis_instance][4]
   - [redis.googleapis.com/ClusterNode][5]

   {{< img src="integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy/redis_instance.png" alt="redis_instance resource labels" >}}

3. Graph the metric in the Google Cloud Metrics Explorer.

   Search for `redis.googleapis.com/stats/cpu_utilization`.
   - Time: 1 hour (ideally in UTC)
   - Namespace: Cloud Memorystore Redis Instance
   - Metric name: CPU Seconds 
   - Filter: (most granular dimensions) project_id, region, instance_id, node_id, role, space, relationship.
   - Aggregation: Sum (should show the same values when using mean, min, max, sum, or none if using most granular dimensions)
   - Min interval: 1m

   {{< img src="integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy/gcp_metric_explorer.png" alt="gcp metric explorer" >}}

4. Graph the metric in the Datadog Metrics Explorer. 

   {{< img src="integrations/guide/gcp-metric-discrepancy/datadog_metric_explorer.png" alt="datadog metric explorer" >}}

   In most cases, after completing steps 1–4, you see the exact same values in both Google Cloud and Datadog. However, in our example, a discrepancy appears at 01:40:00 PM.

   - **Datadog**: 108.71ms 

>    - **GCP**: 0.0018119s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Google Cloud**: 0.0018119s
```
